help/deploy/complete-setup/configure-auth.md, before:

---
title: "Configure authentication"
sidebar_position: 1
---

Datagrok supports many [authentication](../../govern/access-control/access-control.md#authentication) methods, including popular methods such as SSO and OAuth:

* [General](#general-login-password-authentication) (login-password)
* [LDAP](#ldap-authentication)
* [Google](#oauth-authentication)
* [OpenID](#openid-authentication)
* GitHub
* Facebook

You can enable all methods separately or combined.

<!-- markdownlint-disable no-bare-urls -->
If supported authentication methods do not work for you, contact us on info@datagrok.ai, and we will discuss options for your specific case.
<!-- markdownlint-enable no-bare-urls -->

## General (login-password) authentication

General (login-password) authentication is the most basic method to authenticate users with Datagrok.

To configure login-password authentication:

1. Go to the **Settings** > **Users and Sessions**. This section contains all authentication settings.
2. To use the login-password method, enable '_Internal authentication_' in General section
3. To disable signup uncheck '_Signup Allowed_' option
4. To restrict from which domains people can sign up to the platform, use the '_Signup Domains Whitelist_' option. You can set several domains separated with commas.
5. To force people to use active emails, enable the '_Require Email Confirm_' option .

For login-password authentication, it is important to [configure an email service](configure-smtp.md) that will deliver signup, welcome, confirmation and forgot password emails.

### Add users

To create [user](../../govern/access-control/users-and-groups#users):

1. On the **Sidebar** go to **Manage** > **Users**. 
2. On the **Toolbox** click **Add User**. Create new user dialog appears. 
3. Fill all input fields and click **OK**. New User profile appears. Click **Save** on the **Top Bar**.

Use [user groups](../../govern/access-control/users-and-groups#groups) to manage user permissions inside platform.

## LDAP authentication

Datagrok integrates with your LDAP or Active Directory server enabling the smooth domain authentication mechanism across all your services.

1. Go to the **Settings** > **Users and Sessions**. This section contains all authentication settings.
2. To use the LDAP method, enable '_Domain authentication_' 
3. Enable 'Domain signup' to enable all users present on a domain controller to authenticate in the Datagrok platform.
   If the option is disabled, it is required to create the user in the Datagrok platform first to allow the user to log
   into the platform
4. Configure LDAP server address/DNS name
5. Set LDAP server port
6. Enable LDAP SSL if you use LDAPS on your server
7. Set LDAP Base DN. It should look like `dc=datagrok,dc=ai`.
8. Set LDAP User DN. It should look like `CN=USER-DATAGROK,OU=users,DC=datagrok,DC=ai`
9. Set LDAP User password

## Oauth authentication

Datagrok supports Google, Facebook and GitHub OAUTH authentication.

1. Go to the Datagrok Settings section 'Users and Sessions'; this section contains all authentication settings.
2. Enable 'Google authentication' to use the Google Oauth method (or another provider)
3. Set 'Client Id' and 'Secret' if applicable. You can get it from your OpenID provider
4. Make sure the correct Web Root is set in 'Admin' section

## OpenID authentication

Datagrok supports the OpenID protocol to allow users to be authenticated using OpenID providers, for example, Azure AD.

1. Go to the Datagrok Settings section 'Users and Sessions'; this section contains all authentication settings.
2. Enable 'Open Id authentication' to use the OpenID method
3. Get a well-known-configuration route and set it to 'Open Id Config Endpoint'. It should look
   like `https://login.datagrok.ai/.well-known/openid-configuration`
4. Set 'Open Id Client Id' and 'Open Id Secret' as in your OpenId provider
5. Set the' Open Id Code Challenge method' if you enabled authorization code encryption. In most cases, it is `S256`
6. Set 'Open Id Login Claim', 'Open Id Email Claim', 'Open Id First Name Claim', and 'Open Id Last Name Claim' to
   provide optional claims for the application
7. OpenID auto-login can be enabled using the 'Open Id Auto Login' option
8. Make sure the correct Web Root is set in 'Admin' section

Commit message:

Help: Added the Note to LDAP authentication

help/deploy/complete-setup/configure-auth.md, after:

---
title: "Configure authentication"
sidebar_position: 1
---

Datagrok supports many [authentication](../../govern/access-control/access-control.md#authentication) methods, including popular methods such as SSO and OAuth:

* [General](#general-login-password-authentication) (login-password)
* [LDAP](#ldap-authentication)
* [Google](#oauth-authentication)
* [OpenID](#openid-authentication)
* GitHub
* Facebook

You can enable all methods separately or combined.

<!-- markdownlint-disable no-bare-urls -->
If supported authentication methods do not work for you, contact us on info@datagrok.ai, and we will discuss options for your specific case.
<!-- markdownlint-enable no-bare-urls -->

## General (login-password) authentication

General (login-password) authentication is the most basic method to authenticate users with Datagrok.

To configure login-password authentication:

1. Go to the **Settings** > **Users and Sessions**. This section contains all authentication settings.
2. To use the login-password method, enable '_Internal authentication_' in General section
3. To disable signup uncheck '_Signup Allowed_' option
4. To restrict from which domains people can sign up to the platform, use the '_Signup Domains Whitelist_' option. You can set several domains separated with commas.
5. To force people to use active emails, enable the '_Require Email Confirm_' option .

For login-password authentication, it is important to [configure an email service](configure-smtp.md) that will deliver signup, welcome, confirmation and forgot password emails.

### Add users

To create [user](../../govern/access-control/users-and-groups#users):

1. On the **Sidebar** go to **Manage** > **Users**. 
2. On the **Toolbox** click **Add User**. Create new user dialog appears. 
3. Fill all input fields and click **OK**. New User profile appears. Click **Save** on the **Top Bar**.

Use [user groups](../../govern/access-control/users-and-groups#groups) to manage user permissions inside platform.

## LDAP authentication

Datagrok integrates with your LDAP or Active Directory server enabling the smooth domain authentication mechanism across all your services.

1. Go to the **Settings** > **Users and Sessions**. This section contains all authentication settings.
2. To use the LDAP method, enable '_Domain authentication_' 
3. Enable 'Domain signup' to enable all users present on a domain controller to authenticate in the Datagrok platform.
   If the option is disabled, it is required to create the user in the Datagrok platform first to allow the user to log
   into the platform
4. Configure LDAP server address/DNS name
5. Set LDAP server port
6. Enable LDAP SSL if you use LDAPS on your server
7. Set LDAP Base DN. It should look like `dc=datagrok,dc=ai`.
8. Set LDAP User DN. It should look like `CN=USER-DATAGROK,OU=users,DC=datagrok,DC=ai`
9. Set LDAP User password

>Note: To ensure only domain-managed users can access the platform:
>
>1. Disable 'Signup Allowed' to prevent unauthorized users from registering directly on Datagrok.
>2. Enable 'Signup Enabled' in _'Domain Authentication'_ to allow new users already registered in the organization's LDAP or Active Directory (AD) system to log in.

## Oauth authentication

Datagrok supports Google, Facebook and GitHub OAUTH authentication.

1. Go to the Datagrok Settings section 'Users and Sessions'; this section contains all authentication settings.
2. Enable 'Google authentication' to use the Google Oauth method (or another provider)
3. Set 'Client Id' and 'Secret' if applicable. You can get it from your OpenID provider
4. Make sure the correct Web Root is set in 'Admin' section

## OpenID authentication

Datagrok supports the OpenID protocol to allow users to be authenticated using OpenID providers, for example, Azure AD.

1. Go to the Datagrok Settings section 'Users and Sessions'; this section contains all authentication settings.
2. Enable 'Open Id authentication' to use the OpenID method
3. Get a well-known-configuration route and set it to 'Open Id Config Endpoint'. It should look
   like `https://login.datagrok.ai/.well-known/openid-configuration`
4. Set 'Open Id Client Id' and 'Open Id Secret' as in your OpenId provider
5. Set the' Open Id Code Challenge method' if you enabled authorization code encryption. In most cases, it is `S256`
6. Set 'Open Id Login Claim', 'Open Id Email Claim', 'Open Id First Name Claim', and 'Open Id Last Name Claim' to
   provide optional claims for the application
7. OpenID auto-login can be enabled using the 'Open Id Auto Login' option
8. Make sure the correct Web Root is set in 'Admin' section
