---
title: "Core Datagrok concepts"
format: mdx
---

```mdx-code-block
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
```

These concepts are foundational in Datagrok:

### Platform

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="dataframe" label="Dataframe" default>

A [Dataframe (or table)](table.md) is a fundamental data structure in Datagrok.
Dataframes are optimized for [exploratory data
analysis](../solutions/domains/use-cases/eda.md) and support common data
operations like filtering, sorting, or aggregations.

Dataframes can be manipulated directly through the UI,
[Console](../navigation/panels/panels.md#console), or via scripts that automate
data transformations​. Every change made to a dataframe is automatically
recorded, which means it can be audited and reproduced.

Dataframes are visualized using the [grid](../../visualize/viewers/grid.md) viewer.

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="functions" label="Functions">

In Datagrok, everything is a [function](functions/functions.md): From simple
data manipulation like deleting a column to complex operations like running
queries or scripts. 

Functions can be [annotated](functions/func-params-annotation.md), audited, and
linked. They can be written in any language and execute both on the server and
in the browser. Regardless of the function's language, you can incorporate
functions into larger scripts. This lets you automate complex operations,
[auto generate UI](../../compute/compute.md#autogenerated-ui), and [augment
data](../../explore/data-augmentation/data-augmentation.md).

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="entities" label="Entities">

Datagrok treats many different objects as [entities](objects.md). For example,
data connections, users, functions, or layouts are all _entities_. Information
about these entities, including their metadata, is stored in a centralized
database. All entities share a set of common operations, including sharing,
assigning privileges, and retrieving their URL. 

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### User interface

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="views" label="Views">

A [view](../navigation/views/views.md) is designed for specific
tasks. For example, when you open a dataframe, it opens a [Table
View](../navigation/views/table-view.md) resembling Excel, while the
[Browse](../navigation/views/browse.md) view, used for navigation and data
management, resembles Windows File Explorer. Additionally, Datagrok [plugins and
apps](../plugins.md) can introduce custom views.

Each view opens in its own window or tab. This means you can open the same table
or query in multiple views and work on them independently.  

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="layouts" label="Layouts">

In Datagrok, visual representation of tabular data (a
_[layout](../../visualize/view-layout.md)_) is separated from the data itself
(the _dataframe_). This
separation lets you do the following:

* Apply multiple layouts to the same table. This means you can customize views
  according to your specific needs without duplicating the underlying data.
* Save layouts and apply them to different projects and tables.
* Share layouts independently of the underlying data.
* Work on visual presentation separately from data manipulation.

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Data management

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="projects" label="Projects">

[Projects](project/project.md) in Datagrok act like folders,
containing various _entities_ such as dataframes, queries, or scripts. They are
essential for organizing, managing, and sharing data assets. For example,
[dashboards](../../visualize/dashboard.md) are projects that contains
two _entities_: the underlying data (a _dataframe_) and the visualizations
applied to it (a _layout_).

In Datagrok, the [Browse](../navigation/views/browse.md) view acts as both a
navigation tool and a data catalog. You can create a custom project hierarchy
under the **Namespaces** directory.

</TabItem>
</Tabs>