packages/UsageAnalysis/files/Test Track/Chem/Info Panels.md, before:

1. Open linked datasets
2. Use smiles.cvs
3. Click the canonical_smiles column's header.
4. Go to the Context Pane and check all info panels (tabs).
  1. for testing panel Chemistry -> Rendering use chembl_scaffolds.cvs
  2. Choose 'Scaffold' as a Scaffold column and check 'Highlight scaffold'.
  3. Molecules in "Smiles" column should be aligned by scaffold and scaffold should be highlighted 

***

1. Open linked datasets (need to check smiles (smiles.csv), molV2000 (ml1K.sdf), molV3000 (ApprovedDrugs2015.sdf), smarts (SMARTS_example_temp) formats)
2. Make sure that structures of molecules are rendered.
3. Click a cell with a structure.
4. Check that all necessary panels are displayed on the **Context Panel.**
5. Expand each tab on the **Context Panel**.
6. Make sure the content for each info panel is displayed correctly.
---
{
  "order": 1,
  "datasets": [
    "System:DemoFiles/chem/smiles.csv",
    "System:AppData/Chem/chembl-scaffolds.csv",
    "System:AppData/Chem/mol1K.sdf",
    "System:DemoFiles/chem/sdf/ApprovedDrugs2015.sdf",
    "System:AppData/UsageAnalysis/test_datasets/SMARTS_example_temp.csv"
  ]
}

Commit message:

UA: test track: updates (#3056)
* ua test track updates 15 09

* ua test track updates 16 09

* ua test track updates 23 09

* ua: test track: updates 30 09

* ua: test track: updates for Scaffold tests

* ua: test track: updates for Scaffold tests2

packages/UsageAnalysis/files/Test Track/Chem/Info Panels.md, after:

1. Open linked datasets
2. Use smiles.cvs
3. Click the canonical_smiles column's header.
4. Go to the Context Pane and check all info panels (tabs).
  1. for testing panel Chemistry -> Rendering use chembl_scaffolds.cvs
  2. Choose 'Scaffold' as a Scaffold column and check 'Highlight scaffold'.
  3. Molecules in "Smiles" column should be aligned by scaffold and scaffold should be highlighted 
  4. Chemistry -> Hightlight. Add the structure to Hightlight and choose the color different from Scaffold hightlightnings. Both of the hightlightnings should be visible on Smiles column.
5. Click the first molecule in the canonical_smiles column.
- Context Panel switches to molecule data. 
- Expand all tabs on molecule Context Panel. No errors should appear.

***

1. Open linked datasets (need to check smiles (smiles.csv), molV2000 (ml1K.sdf), molV3000 (ApprovedDrugs2015.sdf), smarts (SMARTS_example_temp) formats)
2. Make sure that structures of molecules are rendered.
3. Click a cell with a structure.
4. Check that all necessary panels are displayed on the **Context Panel.**
5. Expand each tab on the **Context Panel**.
6. Make sure the content for each info panel is displayed correctly.
---
{
  "order": 1,
  "datasets": [
    "System:DemoFiles/chem/smiles.csv",
    "System:AppData/Chem/chembl-scaffolds.csv",
    "System:AppData/Chem/mol1K.sdf",
    "System:DemoFiles/chem/sdf/ApprovedDrugs2015.sdf",
    "System:AppData/UsageAnalysis/test_datasets/SMARTS_example_temp.csv"
  ]
}
