---
title: "Overview"
sidebar_position: 0
---

In this section a brief overview of primary concepts of workflows
sre provided.

### Scripts nodes

As described in [scripting](../scripting) section, scripts are just
functions with a set of inputs and outputs (usually abbreviated to io
in workflows documentation). Changes of inputs and outputs are tracked
in a real time and are used to trigger links. Also a user is able to
save the current workflow state and load it later. Basically scripts
with generated UI are reused in workflows as is.

__TODO: ui example__

### Links

Links are connections that are either pass data directly from a source
script io to target or do some transformations via Typescript. There
are multiple types of links, some of them use source scripts
inputs/outputs to pass data to a virtual target, which is not stored
in a script io. This way it is possible to have a derived state, for
example a validation state.

Link handlers are used to make data transformations. They are just
Typescript functions that receive a `controller` object argument, each
link type has its own controller type with slightly different methods
to get and set inputs/outputs. Availability only in Typescript and
using a controller object to get/set inputs/outputs are the main
differences between a script and a link handler.

Note that inputs/outputs of links are different from inputs/outputs of
scripts. For example, a script output will probably be a link input,
and a link output will be a script input. More details about different
link types are available [here](link-types).

### Configuration

To describe a workflow a special typescript object is used. Since
workflows are targeted to be deployed via Datagrok
[packages](../../develop#packages), you can access typescript
configuration typing by installing `@datagrok-libraries/compute-api`
package. `PipelineConfiguration` type describes an n-ary tree
structure where leafs are scripts. Each nested level might have links
definitions which target own or nested scripts io. The main
restriction for links is to have information propagated only forward
(depth first graph ordering). More information about configuration is
available [here](configuration). The configuration is used to make a
navigation tree.

__TODO: simple diagram and code illustrating the above__

__TODO: simple nav tree gif__
