tools/README.md, before:

# Datagrok-tools

Utility to upload and publish [packages](https://datagrok.ai/help/develop/develop#packages) to Datagrok.

## Installation

```shell
npm install datagrok-tools -g
```

## Usage

1. Configure your environment with the following command:

    ```shell
    grok config
    ```

   Enter developer keys and set the default server. The developer key can be retrieved from your user profile (for
   example, see <https://public.datagrok.ai/u>).
2. Create a new package by running this command:

    ```shell
    grok create <package-name>
    ```

   A new folder `<package-name>` will be created automatically as well as its contents.
3. Run `npm install` in your package directory to get the required dependencies (the command is called
   automatically after package creation, if it ran successfully, skip this step).
4. Start working on the functionality of your package. Use `grok add` to create function templates.
5. Once you have completed the work on your package, upload it by running:

    ```shell
    grok publish
    ```

Run `grok` for instructions and `grok <command> --help` to get help on a particular command.

Read more about package development in [Datagrok's documentation](https://datagrok.ai/help/develop/develop).

## Commands

- `config` creates or updates a configuration file. The command shows the location of the config file with the developer
  keys and offers to interactively change them. It is also possible to reset the current configuration.
- `create` adds a package template to the current working directory when used without the `name` argument. The directory
  must be empty:

  ```shell
  grok create
  ```

  When called with an argument, the command creates a package in a folder with the specified name:

  ```shell
  grok create <package-name>
  ```

  Package name may only include letters, numbers, underscores, or hyphens. Read more about naming
  conventions [here](https://datagrok.ai/help/develop/develop#naming-conventions). Options:
  - `--eslint` adds a basic configuration for `eslint`
  - `--ide` adds an IDE-specific configuration for debugging (vscode)
  - `--js` creates a JavaScript package template
  - `--ts` creates a TypeScript package template (default)
  - `--test` adds tests support to package
- `add` puts an object template to your package:

  ```shell
  cd <package-name>
  grok add app <name>
  grok add connection <name>
  grok add detector <semantic-type-name>
  grok add function [tag] <name>
  grok add query <name>
  grok add script [tag] <language> <name>
  grok add view <name>
  grok add viewer <name>
  grok add tests
  ```

  In general, entity names follow naming rules for functions. Views and viewers should have class names, we recommend
  that you postfix them with 'View' and 'Viewer' respectively. Supported languages for scripts are `javascript`, `julia`
  , `node`, `octave`, `python`, `r`. Available function tags: `panel`, `init`.
- `api` creates wrapper functions for package scripts and queries. The output is stored in files `/src/scripts-api.ts`
  and `/src/queries-api.ts` respectively.
- `publish` uploads a package to the specified server (pass either a URL or a server alias from the `config.yaml` file).
Additionally, you can use placeholders in JSON files under the `/connections` folder to substitute environment variables.
For more information on configuring connections, refer to the [Connections](https://datagrok.ai/help/develop#connections) article.

  ```shell
  cd <package-name>
  grok publish [host]
  ```

  Options:
  - `--build` or `--rebuild`: boolean flags that indicate whether a local webpack bundle should be used or it should
    be generated on the server side
  - `--debug` or `--release`: boolean flags that determine whether to publish a debug version of the package visible
    only to the developer or a release version accessible by all eligible users and user groups
  - `--key`: a string containing a developer key that is not listed in the config file, e.g., the key for a new server
  - `--suffix`: a string containing package version hash

  Running `grok publish` is the same as running `grok publish defaultHost --build --debug`.
- `check` checks package content (function signatures, import statements of external modules,
  etc.). The check is also run during package publication.
- `init` modifies a package template by adding config files for linters, IDE, and so on
  (applies the same options as `create`).
- `test` runs package tests. First, it builds a package and publishes it (these
  steps can be skipped with flags `--skip-build` and `--skip-publish`
  correspondingly).

  ```shell
  cd <package-name>
  grok test
  ```

  The default host from the `config.yaml` file is used. You
  can specify another server alias via the `--host` option (e.g., `grok test
  --host=dev`). The results are printed to the terminal. To see tests execution,
  pass the `--gui` flag that disables the headless browser mode. If you want to
  save a test run result, add the `--csv` flag (the report will be saved in a
  CSV file in the package folder). You can find more details in [local package testing
  instructions](https://datagrok.ai/help/develop/how-to/test-packages#local-testing).

  Table with all available flags:
  | Flag           | Description                                                               |
  |----------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------|
  | catchUnhandled | Whether or not to catch unhandled exceptions during tests                 |
  | category       | Runs tests of a specific category                                         |
  | csv            | Saves tests run results as a CSV file in the package folder               |
  | gui            | Disables the headless browser mode                                        |
  | host           | Specify server alias                                                      |
  | record         | Records the test execution process in mp4 format                          |
  | report         | Sends a report on test results                                            |
  | skip-build     | Skips package build step                                                  |
  | skip-publish   | Skips package publish step                                                |
  | verbose        | Prints detailed information about passed and skipped tests in the console |
  | platform       | Runs only platform tests (applicable for ApiTests package only)           |
  | core           | Runs package & core tests (applicable  for DevTools package only)         |

- `link` command is used for public plugins development to link `datagrok-api` and libraries.

Commit message:

Grok Tools: Tests: Added description to test

tools/README.md, after:

# Datagrok-tools

Utility to upload and publish [packages](https://datagrok.ai/help/develop/develop#packages) to Datagrok.

## Installation

```shell
npm install datagrok-tools -g
```

## Usage

1. Configure your environment with the following command:

    ```shell
    grok config
    ```

   Enter developer keys and set the default server. The developer key can be retrieved from your user profile (for
   example, see <https://public.datagrok.ai/u>).
2. Create a new package by running this command:

    ```shell
    grok create <package-name>
    ```

   A new folder `<package-name>` will be created automatically as well as its contents.
3. Run `npm install` in your package directory to get the required dependencies (the command is called
   automatically after package creation, if it ran successfully, skip this step).
4. Start working on the functionality of your package. Use `grok add` to create function templates.
5. Once you have completed the work on your package, upload it by running:

    ```shell
    grok publish
    ```

Run `grok` for instructions and `grok <command> --help` to get help on a particular command.

Read more about package development in [Datagrok's documentation](https://datagrok.ai/help/develop/develop).

## Commands

- `config` creates or updates a configuration file. The command shows the location of the config file with the developer
  keys and offers to interactively change them. It is also possible to reset the current configuration.
- `create` adds a package template to the current working directory when used without the `name` argument. The directory
  must be empty:

  ```shell
  grok create
  ```

  When called with an argument, the command creates a package in a folder with the specified name:

  ```shell
  grok create <package-name>
  ```

  Package name may only include letters, numbers, underscores, or hyphens. Read more about naming
  conventions [here](https://datagrok.ai/help/develop/develop#naming-conventions). Options:
  - `--eslint` adds a basic configuration for `eslint`
  - `--ide` adds an IDE-specific configuration for debugging (vscode)
  - `--js` creates a JavaScript package template
  - `--ts` creates a TypeScript package template (default)
  - `--test` adds tests support to package
- `add` puts an object template to your package:

  ```shell
  cd <package-name>
  grok add app <name>
  grok add connection <name>
  grok add detector <semantic-type-name>
  grok add function [tag] <name>
  grok add query <name>
  grok add script [tag] <language> <name>
  grok add view <name>
  grok add viewer <name>
  grok add tests
  ```

  In general, entity names follow naming rules for functions. Views and viewers should have class names, we recommend
  that you postfix them with 'View' and 'Viewer' respectively. Supported languages for scripts are `javascript`, `julia`
  , `node`, `octave`, `python`, `r`. Available function tags: `panel`, `init`.
- `api` creates wrapper functions for package scripts and queries. The output is stored in files `/src/scripts-api.ts`
  and `/src/queries-api.ts` respectively.
- `publish` uploads a package to the specified server (pass either a URL or a server alias from the `config.yaml` file).
Additionally, you can use placeholders in JSON files under the `/connections` folder to substitute environment variables.
For more information on configuring connections, refer to the [Connections](https://datagrok.ai/help/develop#connections) article.

  ```shell
  cd <package-name>
  grok publish [host]
  ```

  Options:
  - `--build` or `--rebuild`: boolean flags that indicate whether a local webpack bundle should be used or it should
    be generated on the server side
  - `--debug` or `--release`: boolean flags that determine whether to publish a debug version of the package visible
    only to the developer or a release version accessible by all eligible users and user groups
  - `--key`: a string containing a developer key that is not listed in the config file, e.g., the key for a new server
  - `--suffix`: a string containing package version hash

  Running `grok publish` is the same as running `grok publish defaultHost --build --debug`.
- `check` checks package content (function signatures, import statements of external modules,
  etc.). The check is also run during package publication.
- `init` modifies a package template by adding config files for linters, IDE, and so on
  (applies the same options as `create`).
- `test` runs package tests. First, it builds a package and publishes it (these
  steps can be skipped with flags `--skip-build` and `--skip-publish`
  correspondingly). Also, it can be used to debug tests by using(`gui` and `debug` flags).
- `testall` runs tests from the packages directory. It works similarly to `test`, but this function allows tests to run 
  from different packages in a specified order.

  ```shell
  cd <package-name>
  grok test
  ```

  The default host from the `config.yaml` file is used. You
  can specify another server alias via the `--host` option (e.g., `grok test
  --host=dev`). The results are printed to the terminal. To see tests execution,
  pass the `--gui` flag that disables the headless browser mode. If you want to
  save a test run result, add the `--csv` flag (the report will be saved in a
  CSV file in the package folder). You can find more details in [local package testing
  instructions](https://datagrok.ai/help/develop/how-to/test-packages#local-testing).

  Table with all available flags:
  | Flag           | Description                                                               |
  |----------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------|
  | catchUnhandled | Whether or not to catch unhandled exceptions during tests                 |
  | category       | Runs tests of a specific category                                         |
  | csv            | Saves tests run results as a CSV file in the package folder               |
  | gui            | Disables the headless browser mode                                        |
  | host           | Specify server alias                                                      |
  | record         | Records the test execution process in mp4 format                          |
  | report         | Sends a report on test results                                            |
  | skip-build     | Skips package build step                                                  |
  | skip-publish   | Skips package publish step                                                |
  | verbose        | Prints detailed information about passed and skipped tests in the console |
  | platform       | Runs only platform tests (applicable for ApiTests package only)           |
  | core           | Runs package & core tests (applicable  for DevTools package only)         |

- `link` command is used for public plugins development to link `datagrok-api` and libraries.
